# Portfolio
Repository for Data Science and Machine Learning projects I have worked on or am currently pursuing

# [Project 1: Hand Gesture Recognition](https://github.com/hammij/DataMining)
The overall goal of this project is to construct a model which when provided with muscle activity from the forearm will correctly classify the hand gesture that this muscle activity would create. The practical applications of this project stem into the field of artificial limbs, as the ability to classify hand gesture from forearm activity is critical in the development of functional prosthetics.

We were able to do a good classification of the hand gestures using muscle activity. Knowing what EMG signals are and knowing what is noise in them helped greatly in the pre-processing stage which was followed by PCA. This laid the foundation for a neural network to fit the data well and to be able to classify the hand gestures with an average accuracy of 99.44% with cross-validation. The AUC curves that followed made our belief stronger that this indeed is a good model for classifying hand gestures using muscle acivity.

# [Project 2: Generating Wine Descriptions](https://github.com/hammij/WineProject)
A Markov model was created in order to generate wine descriptions that cater to a given set of parameters. The two to three sentence scripts generated by the model reflect to some degree our three inputs of interest: rating, price, and wine variety. We looked to determine noticeable differences in the generated text descriptions that accounted for or even explained why the wine received a low or high rating or why it was being sold at a low or high price. Furthermore, we wanted to see if descriptions were more closely associated to the price of the wine or the rating.

Based on the results of this project, it was clear that a first order markov model will write descriptions containing keywords consistent with actual descriptions. While the generated descriptions my not be grammatically correct, the information they provided was more than enough to understand the flavors that portray a variety of wine.

# [Project 3: Predicting Insurance Premiums
